so I want to ask you one more time it's
your least favorite topic I know I want
to ask you why is the year 2018 so you
know this is New Year's is the New
Year's Eves festival coming up last year
in Seoul over last year we celebrated
with us and you said this is gonna be
the best New Year ever when the ferris
wheel with all this fun stuff that was
from 2017 we can't do that wasn't 18 so
my question for you is what happened
2018 years ago why why is it now the
year 2018 it's not the year 500 it's not
year 1,000 why is it this number and not
something there why and this relates you
this is linked to the question I've
asked you again again who is Santa Claus
what is Christmas all these big themes
are coming together they're all linked
in one giant conspiracy that's gonna
blow your mind put the piece together
you can just understand the way they're
connected but you know do you think your
mom knows but your mom never told you
your mom never explained you some things
are left for your father
to explain to you okay so love oh this
is the big secret this is the Big C is
where all the pieces come together all
those buildings we saw around the city
that were cold at church right remember
that ask you what is it church when you
didn't really know him you don't know
what a church was what do they do inside
a church okay okay they all have statues
of this guy called Jesus Jesus is a
storybook figure he is not any more real
than spongebob there is no real
spongebob spongebob
is just a cartoon in a story right
some people come back through the
scientists answer right right but here's
the thing before this week you never
heard the word Jew or Jewish before I've
been trying to explain to you what it
means to be Jewish who killed Jesus
you said he's gonna come back but that's
cuz he's dead he's just a fictional
character it's just a storybook
character like spongebob here's the
thing the reason why everyone hates us
the reason why we have a separate
cemetery one business everything is
because we killed Jesus the Jews killed
Jesus that's what everyone says that's
what they're all taught in the church it
doesn't have to be that way they could
teach the same story they could say the
Romans killing Jesus they could blame
the Roman Empire they could blame other
people they could blame the soldiers
that kill them they could blame the
judge in the court or they could lay the
law those things came from Rome but no
all of the Christians everybody they
blamed the Jews they say the Jews killed
Jesus and the irony is of course Jesus
himself was a Jew some still today
Jewish people are he did people like you
and me and your grandpa Pete and your
grandma Gail all the Jewish people
you're related to there's this really
intense hatred against Jews Jesus was a
Jew but he was also killed by the truth
the answer to that question is yes
because I am your dad and I am Jewish so
this is the big challenge we don't have
a choice you said to me recently you
were going to move to a bunker
yeah and learn Bulgarian you can choose
to learn the Hungarian language you can
move to China and you can choose to
learn the Chinese language but you will
never become a Chinese person and many
of these places you go if you go to
Bulgaria people will hate you for being
Jewish that's a big problem it's been a
problem for me all of my life it's been
a problem for me in Scotland it's been a
problem for me here in France it's a
bigger problem in some countries than
others but where most of the people are
Christian then you have to you have to
deal with the fact that people that
Christians generally hate Jews so this
is a big part of the history of Europe
and this is why we do not celebrate
Christmas these things are like so
Christmas is the cell it's not about
presents when I asked you before what is
Christmas your answer was Christmas is
about presents Christmas we hope it's
not Christmas is the celebration of
Jesus the full name of Jesus people use
is Jesus Christ Christ Christmas so
Christmas is about Jesus and even New
Year the reason why the year is 2018 is
because it was 2018 years ago in the
magical story just like spongebob that
people started to tell this story about
Jesus being born and then Jesus was
killed he was executed today you saw the
police arresting a criminal in the story
that's what happens Jesus he was
arrested he was taken to court he was
guilty and he was killed right sitterson
the judge in the court was not Jewish
the soldiers the police were not Jewish
but everyone blames the Jews they say
the Jews killed Jesus and you and me
we're both Jews
in Bulgaria the majority of people in
Bulgaria hate us because we're Jews so
we have to live our whole out of this we
can plan our lives around it we can try
to be smart about but this is a big
factor in our lives
you can choose to learn the Chinese
language but you never become Chinese if
you go to China you'll still be a white
person Louisville you can do whatever
you want your life you know but some
things you can't change if you're if
you're born Chinese then you're always
be Chinese but Chinese people can learn
to speak English and English people can
learn to speak Chinese if you are born
in Bulgaria
if you are born Russian then all your
life you will be Bulgaria and you'll be
Russian in terms of your ethnicity in
terms of what you are but learning the
language does not change your ethnicity
and of all the ethnicities to be born
into being Jewish is the most dangerous
ethnicity most of the world hates us and
it will take many years for you to
understand why